in the same sense that the significance
of the Vietnam War for the Vietnamese
themselves may be something quite
different from the significance of the
Vietnamese war for Americans we have to
recognize that the rise and fall of the
Arab Spring phenomenon meant something
very different for the people of Libya
for the people of Egypt so on and so
forth then it did for the predominantly
white Western english-speaking world and
that's what this video is about this is
not the first time I've discussed this
problem on the channel but very few
members of my audience were watching
perhaps five years ago the last time I
discussed it I'm just checking on my
girlfriend off camera do you remember I
was challenging the nascent ideology of
a vegan extremist movement called direct
action everywhere when they first put
forth their Radiology here on YouTube
and on the internet in writing and other
formats they explained what they were
doing as learning the lessons of history
applying the methodology of the Arab
Spring to the struggle to establish
animal rights to end the meat industry
and so on and so forth at that time so
that's just about five years ago now
maybe now closer to six years they were
treating the Arab Spring as a success
story they were treating the Arab Spring
as being the proof of the correctness of
a theory that began with Mohandas Gandhi
also known as Mahatma Gandhi politically
here in India as it is it's the ideology
of gothy had anything to do with what
was happening then in Egypt and Libya
and Tripoli and so it's just
heartbreaking it's heartbreaking really
stupid and you know as if the Arab
Spring were not at that stage already a
disaster a negative example you know
tragedy that we should learn from but
instead this was something to be
celebrated imitated and and emulated and
the strangest part of this all is the
white western english-speaking attempts
to kind of appropriate the theory
interpret the significance of the Arab
Spring also rests on insinuating into
the narrative of a series of key points
in history like like looking up at the
sky and then drawing a line between
stars in the sky insinuating into each
of these points non-violence when the
reality is that each and every one of
those moments in history was defined by
violence period no exceptions so I'm
sure there are philosophers right now in
the Arab speaking world um you know
inclusive of Egypt and so on but I mean
some of these people could be
philosophizing about this in countries
that didn't directly participate in the
Arab Spring with people who could read
the same language used in the newspapers
throughout the region and really follow
what's happened till I'm sure there were
people drawing really meaningful
philosophical conclusions about what
would write it what went wrong but all
of those people know that these
so-called peaceful so-called nonviolent
revolutions and changes of government
every single one of them depended on
basically military LED coup d'etat what
it depended on was the military being
mobilized against the government that
was the decisive step we have a
crucially important witness to the
development of the white Western
ideology of the Arab Spring in a mother
jones article from the year 2012
I remember this article at the time this
article is important in itself and it's
also important in I don't know
reflecting or prefiguring a thousand
other articles that took this same line
of reason he took it further and they
might have been derivative this article
directly because this article
interviewed the
author of a book who was celebrated or
heralded as having written down many of
these ideas before they happen so in the
middle of this interview the link to
this articles below this video and many
points in this is article I have to sort
of cringe at the sort of spectacle of
self-deception that's being indulge in
here but again this is this is the year
2012 all right the interviewer says
quote you point to four key moments in
history the French Revolution the
American Revolution the Glorious
Revolution and the Bolshevik Revolution
and then describe how the real
revolution the nonviolent one took place
in the hearts and minds of people in
those countries so this is what I want
to emphasize the ideology the Anglophone
world created out of the Arab Spring
it didn't just rely on forcibly
misinterpreting what was happening in
the Arab world all right
it's not just that it's drawing a false
line in a constellation where the final
link from some fine historical tradition
is then connected to the present by a
false or dubious line or step of
inference right each and every step is
equally false what are the four the four
moments here mentioned there's a fifth
I'll come back to it section in the
paragraph part of this which is of
course the fifth that some engineer is
is Mohandas Gandhi in in India and in
South Africa okay the French Revolution
what kind of a lunatic could describe
the French Revolution as nonviolent the
American Revolution what kind of an
imbecile from what perspective could you
say anything about the American
Revolution in its in its resolution and
its aims and its objectives and how it
achieve them is nonviolent who could use
either of these revolutions as a symbol
of or demonstration of the importance of
non-violence
in achieving political change these may
be very grim and instructive chapters of
history for us to reflect on on the
importance of violence of military
discipline and someone of the third
example I think is just obscure to most
people the Glorious Revolution was the
glorious revolution in England nobody
talks about it anymore
you know why because it was basically
about aunty Catholicism it was one of
many quote-unquote revolutions or you
know political events any one that
fundamentally had to do with the
struggle of Protestant against Catholics
so today we don't think of it that much
it involved war and armies and Oh what
do you mean this shows that the the real
revolution the nonviolent one took took
place in the hearts and minds of people
how can that possibly be the lesson
Vanity's and then the fourth and final
one the Bolshevik Revolution he doesn't
even see the Russian Revolution I'm
sorry cuz these these are there's a
significant difference here specifically
the takeover of power by the Bolsheviks
in Russia this is not merely a
revolution but also a civil war this is
unbelievably violent sadly the lesson we
would draw from these four examples that
they've set out here is that violence
and only violence matters that the only
thing that matters is who takes over
so as I've already given away in the
paragraph both before and after this in
the same article there's a great deal of
talk about Mohandas Gandhi and how what
he represented is supposedly an ideal of
non-violence okay but what is the actual
example September of 1906 in
Johannesburg South Africa
okay what what was Gandhi what was
Gandhi actually actually trying to
achieve in in South Africa it wasn't the
liberation of of black people it was
most Americans you guys know this the
first the first thing he wanted was
legal recognition of Hindu marriages I'm
sorry I'm cursed I've actually read the
history here unlike the various vegans
and so on who tried to weaponize the
city ology to make it into something
convenient okay um
the second thing what really made him
famous what really got him published in
the newspapers and made his name
notorious was in the lead-up to World
War one
Gandhi was fighting against the racism
of the British Army and the British Army
only wanted what
people fighting in the military and he
wanted ethnically Indian people
ethnically brown-skinned people from
India to be able to volunteer and fight
for the British Empire it's the army
in the end he got a halfway concession
people of Indian ancestry in South
Africa were allowed to play a support
role they were allowed to be something
like a nurse or carry heavy equipment
but not to actually fight so so not only
was there nothing nonviolent about the
means is nothing on the hood about the
objectives at the ends and he was in a
caste system in an apartheid system in
South Africa so she never be forgotten
South Africa was not simply about the
inequality of blacks and whites there
were many specific ethnic groups
including people from India that each
had their precise station in an
incredibly racist and evil social system
um and he was a lawyer who was an
advocate for one of the moderately
privileged people he wanted them to be
more privileged he was not helping the
upliftment of the weak and the poor he
was not helping the indigenous people
with blacks he was not opposed to
British Empire at that time he was in
fact hilariously wanting people of
Indian ancestry to be able to volunteer
for and fight for the Empire look guys
I'm not an expert this is not my
expertise I I don't care this is not my
passion in life there are so many things
I've researched to death and everything
we've covered this video
I wouldn't even normally disclaim my
ignorance of and yet I seem to be so
much better informed than people like
Wayne's young the leader of direct
action everywhere people like the
professional journalists at Mother Jones
people like the author of this book
Jonathan schnell
there was this rotating cast of
characters who back in the year 2011
2012 2013 at that time we're appearing
on respectable news programs like you
know BBC HARDtalk so you know British
Broadcasting Service and so on you know
uh and you know in very sober serious
voices talking about how yes the Arab
Spring proves once
for all that really the way to make
political change is non-violence this is
like I say the last star in the
constellation in the sky that really
sets out the way to change the world is
through this nonviolent tradition of
political protest that somehow
miraculously linked to Mohandas Gandhi
and India as if as if it were so easy to
find something in common between you
know the struggle for India's
independence from the British Empire and
you know veganism or ecology or wanting
to have democracy in North Africa and
it's you know it's just surreal the
comparison to begin with and then as I'm
sitting here I mean relatively
succinctly in this YouTube video what's
interesting about the analysis is that
it requires dishonesty it requires a
peculiar leap of faith from us at each
and every stage of the analysis all
right
so as I disclaim the beginning this
video I am NOT here discussing the
reality of the Arab Spring at all I am
NOT discussing the significance of the
Arab Spring from an Arab perspective
what it means for the people who are
living today in Egypt and one of the
reasons I'm not doing that is I think
all of those people are aware the Arab
Spring was a failure it was a
catastrophe was a calamity I was almost
moved to tears where we saw an interview
just via the Internet but is a TV
recorded interview with a man who had
fought for democracy in the Arab Spring
but now his country is in such a
constant state of internecine violence
descending into tribalism and so on he
said in his own voice that when he looks
back now he would have fought to
maintain the despotism they had before
instead of fighting for democracy if
he'd had the knowledge that this was
where democracy would lead was to this
you know a horrible state of a war of
all against all they're okay to a much
greater extent than the Vietnam War
became a symbol in the minds of
Americans utterly divorced from and
relate unrelated to the reality of the
Vietnam War for the Vietnamese the Arab
Spring has taken on a significance in
the white Western english-speaking
imagination completely divorced from the
reality
what this meant for Arab Arabic people
in general or Egyptian people in
particular Libyan people in particular
any of these examples you you want to
talk about how is this possible in the
year 2020 when the simple facts of the
matter can be so easily googled you know
I'm sorry this is I don't know this is
depressing or an uplifting note to end
on but you know guys I can remember when
I physically had to walk into an archive
and go to a shelf nobody ever went to
was the government publications section
and go through and find like the the
serial number of the document number
this wasn't secret information but to
get government information was this
incredibly laborious task and now I can
Google around and in 30 seconds fine
things so much more effectively and I
can find the whole history of the prior
documents and the revisions and I can
find an interview with the people who
wrote that legislation and why it
happened and so on so much is knowable
so immediately but there's this kind of
commitment people have to living in this
this dangerous mix of truth and fiction
you know people want to believe in this
mythology they want to believe in the
myth of Mohandas Gandhi as the hero as
was presented in a Hollywood movie with
you know a western actor playing the
role of condi that movie is unbelievably
far removed from the reality of who
Gandhi was that what happened in it his
independence struggle they want to
believe in a myth sort of just directly
quoting this one article from Mother
Jones Mother Jones is supposed to be
nonfiction this myth that the French
Revolution the American Revolution the
Glorious Revolution and the Bolshevik
Revolution that those four all represent
ideals of of non-violence in the pursuit
of social and cultural change to me the
most dangerous warning that we can at
any time return to the the horrors of
the
revolution that we can at any time
return to the extreme violence that was
indeed unleashed by the Arab Spring
itself is precisely the people are so
willing are so eager to live in a world
that is not defined and not described by
facts where they don't learn the lessons
of history that they're so eager to
commit themselves to mythology